---
title: "Get Set Go"
date: 2023-02-01

---
<h1><b>Let's Start</b></h1>
<p>
Since my bachelor's, javaTpoint has been my go-to website for learning a new language or technology. I used it to begin learning C#. I started by just going over some of the C# features, like syntax, keywords, control statements, arrays, strings, and object-oriented programming. Later, from this link: https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet , I downloaded the .NET 6.0 SDK (v6.0.405).
</p>
<p>
Since C# is inextricably linked to the .NET framework and cannot work on C# without it. To work with C#, we must download .NET. In accordance with best practices, I downloaded the Long Term Support (LTS) version. I followed convention and created my first <a href="https://github.com/rugveth1210/Language-Learning-Blog/blob/main/_Codes/MyFirstCsharpProgram.cs">Hello World</a> application in C#. I was told that there are four different ways to write the Hello World program when I referred javaTpoint. In this case, they just modified the access modifier and used the system, which I felt was unnecessary to try different techniques.
</p>
<p>
I have used terminal to compile and run the code. It is a little annoying that I must set path variables and type commands to run the file. Initially, I forgot to give path variables and received error.
</p>

<code>'csc' is not recognized as an internal or external command</code>

<p>
However, working on a terminal is a good practice. Once, after writing the program in visual studio code. Type <code>csc filename.cs</code> and hit Enter to build. MyFirstCsharpProgram is the name of our file in this case, thus we will write <code>csc MyFirstCsharpProgram.cs</code>. Once the program has been compiled, type <code>filename</code> and hit enter to launch it. We will receive the output.
</p>
<p>
I've also created another program that employs the if else statement to determine whether a number is <a href="https://github.com/rugveth1210/Language-Learning-Blog/blob/main/_Codes/IfElseCsharp.cs">even or odd</a>.
</p>
<h1><b>Summary</b></h1>
<p>
I had a good start to learn C# using javaTpoint. I have spent time, on initial setup and learning features, syntax, keywords and control statements.
</p>

